docs/source/rst.rst, before:

=====================================================
reStructuredText
=====================================================

:Cheatcheat:
   * http://github.com/ralsina/rst-cheatsheet/raw/master/rst-cheatsheet.pdf
   * http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/directives.html

Important extensions:

* http://sphinx-doc.org/ext/todo.html

.. todo::

   Hyungro, I also posted yesterday to Barbara how to do links, please
   dig out mail and add here. add additional missing details about rst here.

Sections
----------------------------------------------------------------------   

RST allows to specify a number of sections. You can do this with the
various underlines::

      *********************
      Chapter
      *********************
      Section
      =====================
      Subsection
      ---------------------
      Subsubsection
      ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
      Paragraph
      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Listtable
----------------------------------------------------------------------

::

   .. csv-table:: Eye colors
      :header: "Name", "Firstname", "eyes"
      :widths: 20, 20, 10

      "von Laszewski", "Gregor", "gray"

.. csv-table:: a title
   :header: "Name", "Firstname", "eyes"
   :widths: 20, 20, 10

   "von Laszewski", "Gregor", "gray"


Exceltable
----------------------------------------------------------------------

we have integrated Excel table from
http://pythonhosted.org//sphinxcontrib-exceltable/ intou our sphinx
allowing the definition of more elaborate tables specified in
excel. Howere the most convenient way may be to use list-tables. The
documentation to list tables can be found at
http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/directives.html#list-table

Boxes
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Seealso
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

::

  .. seealso:: This is a simple **seealso** note. 


.. seealso:: This is a simple **seealso** note. 

Note
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. note::  This is a **note** box.

::

    .. note::  This is a **note** box.

Warning
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. warning:: note the space between the directive and the text

::

    .. warning:: note the space between the directive and the text

Others
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


.. attention:: This is an **attention** box.

::

    .. attention:: This is an **attention** box.


.. caution:: This is a **caution** box.

::

    .. caution:: This is a **caution** box.


.. danger:: This is a **danger** box.

::

    .. danger:: This is a **danger** box.


.. error:: This is a **error** box.

::

    .. error:: This is a **error** box.


.. hint:: This is a **hint** box.

::

    .. hint:: This is a **hint** box.


.. important:: This is an **important** box.

::

    .. important:: This is an **important** box.


.. tip:: This is a **tip** box.

::

    .. tip:: This is a **tip** box.




Sidebar directive
----------------------------------------------------------------------

It is possible to create sidebar using the following code::

    .. sidebar:: Sidebar Title
        :subtitle: Optional Sidebar Subtitle

        Subsequent indented lines comprise
        the body of the sidebar, and are
        interpreted as body elements.


.. sidebar:: Sidebar Title
    :subtitle: Optional Sidebar Subtitle

    Subsequent indented lines comprise
    the body of the sidebar, and are
    interpreted as body elements.

Autorun
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Autorun is an extension for Sphinx_ that can execute the code from a
runblock directive and attach the output of the execution to the document. 

For example::

    .. runblock:: pycon
        
        >>> for i in range(3):
        ...    print i

Produces

.. runblock:: pycon
        
    >>> for i in range(3):
    ...    print i


Another example::

    .. runblock:: console

        $ date

Produces

.. runblock:: console

   $ date 

However, when it comes to excersises we do preferthe use of ipython
notebooks as this allows us to present them also to users as self
contained excersises.

Todo
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
::
      
      .. todo:: an example

.. todo:: an example

Commit message:

add the rst link explenation

docs/source/rst.rst, after:

=====================================================
reStructuredText
=====================================================

:Cheatcheat:
   * http://github.com/ralsina/rst-cheatsheet/raw/master/rst-cheatsheet.pdf
   * http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/directives.html

Important extensions:

* http://sphinx-doc.org/ext/todo.html

Sections
----------------------------------------------------------------------   

RST allows to specify a number of sections. You can do this with the
various underlines::

      *********************
      Chapter
      *********************
      Section
      =====================
      Subsection
      ---------------------
      Subsubsection
      ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
      Paragraph
      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Listtable
----------------------------------------------------------------------

::

   .. csv-table:: Eye colors
      :header: "Name", "Firstname", "eyes"
      :widths: 20, 20, 10

      "von Laszewski", "Gregor", "gray"

.. csv-table:: a title
   :header: "Name", "Firstname", "eyes"
   :widths: 20, 20, 10

   "von Laszewski", "Gregor", "gray"


Exceltable
----------------------------------------------------------------------

we have integrated Excel table from
http://pythonhosted.org//sphinxcontrib-exceltable/ intou our sphinx
allowing the definition of more elaborate tables specified in
excel. Howere the most convenient way may be to use list-tables. The
documentation to list tables can be found at
http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/directives.html#list-table

Boxes
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Seealso
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

::

  .. seealso:: This is a simple **seealso** note. 


.. seealso:: This is a simple **seealso** note. 

Note
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. note::  This is a **note** box.

::

    .. note::  This is a **note** box.

Warning
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. warning:: note the space between the directive and the text

::

    .. warning:: note the space between the directive and the text

Others
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


.. attention:: This is an **attention** box.

::

    .. attention:: This is an **attention** box.


.. caution:: This is a **caution** box.

::

    .. caution:: This is a **caution** box.


.. danger:: This is a **danger** box.

::

    .. danger:: This is a **danger** box.


.. error:: This is a **error** box.

::

    .. error:: This is a **error** box.


.. hint:: This is a **hint** box.

::

    .. hint:: This is a **hint** box.


.. important:: This is an **important** box.

::

    .. important:: This is an **important** box.


.. tip:: This is a **tip** box.

::

    .. tip:: This is a **tip** box.




Sidebar directive
----------------------------------------------------------------------

It is possible to create sidebar using the following code::

    .. sidebar:: Sidebar Title
        :subtitle: Optional Sidebar Subtitle

        Subsequent indented lines comprise
        the body of the sidebar, and are
        interpreted as body elements.


.. sidebar:: Sidebar Title
    :subtitle: Optional Sidebar Subtitle

    Subsequent indented lines comprise
    the body of the sidebar, and are
    interpreted as body elements.

Autorun
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Autorun is an extension for Sphinx_ that can execute the code from a
runblock directive and attach the output of the execution to the document. 

For example::

    .. runblock:: pycon
        
        >>> for i in range(3):
        ...    print i

Produces

.. runblock:: pycon
        
    >>> for i in range(3):
    ...    print i


Another example::

    .. runblock:: console

        $ date

Produces

.. runblock:: console

   $ date 

However, when it comes to excersises we do preferthe use of ipython
notebooks as this allows us to present them also to users as self
contained excersises.

Hyperlinks
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Direct links to html pages can ve done with::

   `This is a link to an html page <hadoop.html>`_
  
Note that this page could be generated from an rst page


Links to the FG portal need to be formulated with the portal tag::

  :portal:`List to FG projects </projects/all>`
  
In case a subsection has a link declared you can use :ref: (this is
the prefered way as it can be used to point even to subsections::

  :ref:`Connecting private network VMs  clusters <_s_vpn>` 

A html link can be created anywhere in the document but must be
unique. for example if you place::

  .. _s_vpn:

in the text it will create a target to which the above link points when you click on it


Todo
----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
::
      
      .. todo:: an example

.. todo:: an example
