docs/source/class/bdossp_sp15/index.rst, before:

.. |courseimg| image:: ../../images/course-image.png
	   :width: 30


*******************************************************************************
|courseimg| Spring 2015 - Big Data Open Source Software Project (BUEX-V 594)
*******************************************************************************
Although this material is prepared for the classes IU ``BUEX-V 594``,
they are of general interest to others. Please use
them  to learn about BigData Software and Technologies.

* Course Page: http://bigdataopensourceprojects.soic.indiana.edu/
* IU Canvas: https://iu.instructure.com/courses/1453783

Contact
======================================================================

.. include:: ../contact.rst

Besides this table of contents, we also have prepared a weekly plan to
which we will add more content througout the semester:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   
   week_plan
	     
Support
======================================================================

Office hours will be held so that students may receive individual
attention from instructors.  Additionally, hours will be made
available for general discussions.

.. note::

   All times are in US Eastern Standard Time.

Office Hours
----------------------------------------------------------------------

.. include:: ../office-hours.rst

General Discussion
----------------------------------------------------------------------

.. include:: ../discussion-hours.rst

Collaboration Tools
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:
  
   ../lesson/collaboration/overview
   ../lesson/google
   ../lesson/shell-access
   ../lesson/git

..
   these sections don't belong under collab tools
   ../lesson/deployment/index
   ../lesson/virtualization/tools

FutureSystems Access
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   ../lesson/hands_on_fg465
   ../lesson/system/overview
   ../lesson/system/futuresystemsuse
      


Linux Basics
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   ../lesson/linux/overview
   ../lesson/linux/shell
   ../lesson/linux/editors
   ../lesson/linux/python
   ../lesson/linux/ipython
   ../lesson/linux/packagemanagement
   ../lesson/linux/advancedssh
   ../lesson/linux/modules


Basics of OpenStack
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   ../lesson/iaas/overview_openstack
   ../lesson/iaas/openstack
   ../lesson/iaas/openstack_juno
   ../lesson/iaas/other_iaas

Basics of Cloudmesh
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:


   ../lesson/iaas/overview_cloudmesh
   ../lesson/iaas/cloudmesh
   ../lesson/iaas/cloudmesh_ipython
   ../lesson/iaas/cloudmesh_openstack


Advanced Cloudmesh
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   ../lesson/iaas/overview_advanced
   ../lesson/iaas/cloudmesh_vm
   ../lesson/iaas/cloudmesh_cluster


IT Operations - Automation and Orchestration 
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   ../lesson/devops/overview
   ../lesson/devops/ansible
   ../lesson/devops/saltstack
   ../lesson/devops/puppet
   ../lesson/devops/chef
   ../lesson/devops/other


Virtual Clusters
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   ../lesson/devops/overview_vc
   ../lesson/devops/deployment
   ../lesson/devops/hadoop
   ../lesson/devops/composite_cluster
   ../lesson/devops/openmpi_cluster
   ../lesson/devops/mongodb_cluster


Other Technologies
======================================================================

Future
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   future


To be Organized into the above
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   ../lesson/openmpi
   ../lesson/ipynb
   ../lesson/ansible
   ../lesson/ansible_cloudmesh
   ../lesson/docker
   ../lesson/docker_cloudmesh

Commit message:

update times for office hours, add Adobe Connect link for both

docs/source/class/bdossp_sp15/index.rst, after:

.. |courseimg| image:: ../../images/course-image.png
	   :width: 30


*******************************************************************************
|courseimg| Spring 2015 - Big Data Open Source Software Project (BUEX-V 594)
*******************************************************************************
Although this material is prepared for the classes IU ``BUEX-V 594``,
they are of general interest to others. Please use
them  to learn about BigData Software and Technologies.

* Course Page: http://bigdataopensourceprojects.soic.indiana.edu/
* IU Canvas: https://iu.instructure.com/courses/1453783

Contact
======================================================================

.. include:: ../contact.rst

Besides this table of contents, we also have prepared a weekly plan to
which we will add more content througout the semester:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   
   week_plan
	     
Support
======================================================================

Office hours will be held so that students may receive individual
attention from instructors.  Additionally, hours will be made
available for general discussions.

Discussions will be done using Adobe Air.
Make sure you are prepared to join the meeting by click on the following links:

#. Adobe Connect Setup Instructions: https://ittraining.iu.edu/connectsetup/
#. Installing Adobe Connect Plug-In: https://kb.iu.edu/d/bdoc
#. Testing Connectivity: https://connect.iu.edu/common/help/en/support/meeting_test.htm


.. note::

   All times are in US Eastern Standard Time.

Office Hours
----------------------------------------------------------------------

.. include:: ../office-hours.rst

General Discussion
----------------------------------------------------------------------

.. include:: ../discussion-hours.rst

Collaboration Tools
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:
  
   ../lesson/collaboration/overview
   ../lesson/google
   ../lesson/shell-access
   ../lesson/git

..
   these sections don't belong under collab tools
   ../lesson/deployment/index
   ../lesson/virtualization/tools

FutureSystems Access
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   ../lesson/hands_on_fg465
   ../lesson/system/overview
   ../lesson/system/futuresystemsuse
      


Linux Basics
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   ../lesson/linux/overview
   ../lesson/linux/shell
   ../lesson/linux/editors
   ../lesson/linux/python
   ../lesson/linux/ipython
   ../lesson/linux/packagemanagement
   ../lesson/linux/advancedssh
   ../lesson/linux/modules


Basics of OpenStack
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   ../lesson/iaas/overview_openstack
   ../lesson/iaas/openstack
   ../lesson/iaas/openstack_juno
   ../lesson/iaas/other_iaas

Basics of Cloudmesh
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:


   ../lesson/iaas/overview_cloudmesh
   ../lesson/iaas/cloudmesh
   ../lesson/iaas/cloudmesh_ipython
   ../lesson/iaas/cloudmesh_openstack


Advanced Cloudmesh
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   ../lesson/iaas/overview_advanced
   ../lesson/iaas/cloudmesh_vm
   ../lesson/iaas/cloudmesh_cluster


IT Operations - Automation and Orchestration 
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   ../lesson/devops/overview
   ../lesson/devops/ansible
   ../lesson/devops/saltstack
   ../lesson/devops/puppet
   ../lesson/devops/chef
   ../lesson/devops/other


Virtual Clusters
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   ../lesson/devops/overview_vc
   ../lesson/devops/deployment
   ../lesson/devops/hadoop
   ../lesson/devops/composite_cluster
   ../lesson/devops/openmpi_cluster
   ../lesson/devops/mongodb_cluster


Other Technologies
======================================================================

Future
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   future


To be Organized into the above
======================================================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   ../lesson/openmpi
   ../lesson/ipynb
   ../lesson/ansible
   ../lesson/ansible_cloudmesh
   ../lesson/docker
   ../lesson/docker_cloudmesh
