docs/source/hardware/indiana.rst, before:

.. _s-hardware:

**********************************************************************
Hardware at Indiana University
**********************************************************************

In this section we describe the hardware that is available at Indiana
University and allows you as part of course work or joint projects to
gain easily access to them.


Compute Resources
==================

The tables :ref:`t-clusters` and :ref:`t-clusters-details` show an
overview of some imporatnt information about these clusters.

.. _t-clusters:

.. csv-table:: **Table**: Compute Resources
   :header: Name, System Type           , # Nodes, # CPUS, # Cores, TFLOPS , RAM (GB), Storage (TB), Site

   india        , IBM iDataplex          ,128,256,1024,11,3072,335, IU
   xray         , Cray XT5m              ,1,166,664,6,1328,5.4, IU
   bravo        , HP Proliant            ,16,32,128,1.7,3072,128, IU
   delta        , SuperMicro GPU Cluster ,16,32,192,           ,1333,144, IU
   echo         , SuperMicro ScaleMP Cluster,16,32,192,2,6144,192, IU

.. _t-clusters-details:

.. csv-table:: **Table**: Compute Resource Details
   :header: Name , India,Echo, Bravo, Delta, Xray

   Organization, Indiana University,, Indiana University, Indiana University, Indiana University
   Machine Type                           , Cluster                                ,Cluster SclaeMP, Cluster                               , Cluster                           , Cluster
   System Type                            , IBM iDataPlex dx 360 M2                ,SuperMicro, HP Proliant                           ,, Cray XT5m
   CPU type                               , Intel Xeon X5550                       ,Intel Xeon E5-2640, Intel Xeon E5620                      , Intel Xeon 5660                   , AMD Opteron 2378
   Host Name                              , india                                  ,echo, bravo                                 , delta                             , xray
   CPU Speed                              , 2.66GHz                                ,2.50GHz, 2.40GHz                               , 2.80 GHz                          , 2.4GHz
   Number of CPUs                         ,256,,32,32,168
   Number of nodes                        ,128,12,16,16,1
   RAM                                    , 24 GB DDR3 1333Mhz                     ,, 192 GB DDR3 1333Mhz                   , 192 GB DDR3 1333 Mhz               , 8 GB DDR2-800
   Total RAM (GB)                         ,3072,,3072,3072,1344
   Number of cores                        ,1024,144,128,,672
   Operating System                       , Linux                                  ,, Linux                                 ,Linux, Linux
   Tflops                                 ,11,,1.7,,6
   Disk Size (TB)                         ,335,2.8,,15,335
   Hard Drives                            , 3000 GB Internal 7200 RPM SATA Drive   ,, 6x2TB Internal 7200 RPM SATA Drive    , Seagate Constellation 7.2 K RPM     64 MB Cache SATA 92GB   , 6 TB Internal Lustre Storage
   Primary storage shared by all nodes  ,  NFS                                   ,, NFS                                   ,NFS, NFS
   Storage details                        ,,,, RAID 9260-4i 1pt SAS2  512 MB SGL  ,
   Connection configuration               , Mellanox 4x DDR InfiniBand adapters    ,, Mellanox 4x DDR InfiniBand adapters   ,, Cray SeaStar Interconnect
   Primary storage shared by all nodes   ,,,,,
   CPUs (cores) per node                  ,,,,2,
   Cores per CPU,,,,6,
   Total number of GPU cores,,,,192,
   GPU type                               ,,,, nVIDIA Tesla C2070                ,
   Cores per GPU,,,,448,
   GPUs per node,,,,2,
   Batch system                           ,,,, Torque                            ,




Networks
======================================================================

.. csv-table::
   :header: Resource Name, Network Devices
   
   IU Cray, Cray 2D Torus SeaStar 
   IU iDataPlex , DDR IB , QLogic switch with Mellanox ConnectX adapters,Blade Network Technologies & Force10 Ethernet switches
 
 
Below is further information about networking:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20,20,60

   * - Resource
     - Network Switch
     - Link
   * - FutureGrid Core
     - Juniper EX8200
     -
   * - India
     - Force10 C-150
     - `Juniper/Dell EX series Force 10 <https://www.juniper.net/us/en/products-services/switching/ex-series/Force10>`__
   * - Bravo
     - Force10 S60
     - `force10-s60 <http://www.dell.com/us/enterprise/p/force10-s60/pd>`__
   * - Delta
     - Force10 S60
     -
   * - Echo
     - Force10 S60
     -
   * - Xray
     - Force10, C-150
     - `Force10-c150 <http://www.dell.com/us/enterprise/p/force10-c150/pd>`__ 
   * - Node NICs
     - built-in (IBM iDataPlex DX360 M2) dual Intel 82575EB Gigabit Network Connection
       10Gbps, Myricom Myri-10G Dual-Protocol NIC (available on login
       node)
     -
 
.. todo:: Hyungro, get info from Koji or Allan . we need current network swithes inside india 
             old switch is  `IBM rack switches (formerly BNT) <http://www-03.ibm.com/systems/networking/switches/rack.html>`__
             but that switch was replaced

Commit message:

we have up-to-date network information for india

docs/source/hardware/indiana.rst, after:

.. _s-hardware:

**********************************************************************
Hardware at Indiana University
**********************************************************************

In this section we describe the hardware that is available at Indiana
University and allows you as part of course work or joint projects to
gain easily access to them.


Compute Resources
==================

The tables :ref:`t-clusters` and :ref:`t-clusters-details` show an
overview of some imporatnt information about these clusters.

.. _t-clusters:

.. csv-table:: **Table**: Compute Resources
   :header: Name, System Type           , # Nodes, # CPUS, # Cores, TFLOPS , RAM (GB), Storage (TB), Site

   india        , IBM iDataplex          ,128,256,1024,11,3072,335, IU
   xray         , Cray XT5m              ,1,166,664,6,1328,5.4, IU
   bravo        , HP Proliant            ,16,32,128,1.7,3072,128, IU
   delta        , SuperMicro GPU Cluster ,16,32,192,           ,1333,144, IU
   echo         , SuperMicro ScaleMP Cluster,16,32,192,2,6144,192, IU

.. _t-clusters-details:

.. csv-table:: **Table**: Compute Resource Details
   :header: Name , India,Echo, Bravo, Delta, Xray

   Organization, Indiana University,, Indiana University, Indiana University, Indiana University
   Machine Type                           , Cluster                                ,Cluster SclaeMP, Cluster                               , Cluster                           , Cluster
   System Type                            , IBM iDataPlex dx 360 M2                ,SuperMicro, HP Proliant                           ,, Cray XT5m
   CPU type                               , Intel Xeon X5550                       ,Intel Xeon E5-2640, Intel Xeon E5620                      , Intel Xeon 5660                   , AMD Opteron 2378
   Host Name                              , india                                  ,echo, bravo                                 , delta                             , xray
   CPU Speed                              , 2.66GHz                                ,2.50GHz, 2.40GHz                               , 2.80 GHz                          , 2.4GHz
   Number of CPUs                         ,256,,32,32,168
   Number of nodes                        ,128,12,16,16,1
   RAM                                    , 24 GB DDR3 1333Mhz                     ,, 192 GB DDR3 1333Mhz                   , 192 GB DDR3 1333 Mhz               , 8 GB DDR2-800
   Total RAM (GB)                         ,3072,,3072,3072,1344
   Number of cores                        ,1024,144,128,,672
   Operating System                       , Linux                                  ,, Linux                                 ,Linux, Linux
   Tflops                                 ,11,,1.7,,6
   Disk Size (TB)                         ,335,2.8,,15,335
   Hard Drives                            , 3000 GB Internal 7200 RPM SATA Drive   ,, 6x2TB Internal 7200 RPM SATA Drive    , Seagate Constellation 7.2 K RPM     64 MB Cache SATA 92GB   , 6 TB Internal Lustre Storage
   Primary storage shared by all nodes  ,  NFS                                   ,, NFS                                   ,NFS, NFS
   Storage details                        ,,,, RAID 9260-4i 1pt SAS2  512 MB SGL  ,
   Connection configuration               , Mellanox 4x DDR InfiniBand adapters    ,, Mellanox 4x DDR InfiniBand adapters   ,, Cray SeaStar Interconnect
   Primary storage shared by all nodes   ,,,,,
   CPUs (cores) per node                  ,,,,2,
   Cores per CPU,,,,6,
   Total number of GPU cores,,,,192,
   GPU type                               ,,,, nVIDIA Tesla C2070                ,
   Cores per GPU,,,,448,
   GPUs per node,,,,2,
   Batch system                           ,,,, Torque                            ,




Networks
======================================================================

.. csv-table::
   :header: Resource Name, Network Devices
   
   IU Cray, Cray 2D Torus SeaStar 
   IU iDataPlex , DDR IB , QLogic switch with Mellanox ConnectX adapters,Blade Network Technologies & Force10 Ethernet switches
 
 
Below is further information about networking:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20,20,60

   * - Resource
     - Network Switch
     - Link
   * - FutureGrid Core
     - Juniper EX8200
     -
   * - India
     - Force10 C-150
     - `Juniper/Dell EX series Force 10 <https://www.juniper.net/us/en/products-services/switching/ex-series/Force10>`__
   * - Bravo
     - Force10 S60
     - `force10-s60 <http://www.dell.com/us/enterprise/p/force10-s60/pd>`__
   * - Delta
     - Force10 S60
     -
   * - Echo
     - Force10 S60
     -
   * - Xray
     - Force10, C-150
     - `Force10-c150 <http://www.dell.com/us/enterprise/p/force10-c150/pd>`__ 
   * - Node NICs
     - built-in (IBM iDataPlex DX360 M2) dual Intel 82575EB Gigabit Network Connection
       10Gbps, Myricom Myri-10G Dual-Protocol NIC (available on login
       node)
     -
 
.. Allan confirmed that we have up-to-date information for network switches on india. Sep 19th, 2014
   .. todo:: Hyungro, get info from Koji or Allan . we need current network swithes inside india 
             old switch is  `IBM rack switches (formerly BNT) <http://www-03.ibm.com/systems/networking/switches/rack.html>`__
             but that switch was replaced
